#summary How to build a normal Ivy repository using Ivy RoundUp

== Overview ==

While the primary goal of the Ivy !RoundUp project is to provide an online Ivy repository, not repository build tools, it's easy to use the Ivy !RoundUp build infrastructure to create a normal Ivy repository. How to do this is described here.

The Ivy !RoundUp repository contains {{{ivy.xml}}} files but no actual artifacts. In place of artifacts, it has {{{packager.xml}}} files which describe how to download and (if necessary) extract artifacts on-demand. An "ant" task in allows you to build a normal repository automatically using this information.

== Prerequisites ==

 # You must have a version of Ivy containing the *packager resolver* installed on your machine (Ivy 2.0.0-rc1 or later).
 # You'll need to [http://code.google.com/p/ivyroundup/source/checkout check out the source code] for Ivy !RoundUp using Subversion.
 # You'll need to be running on a UNIX-like O/S.
 # You'll need *ant* 1.6.2 or later.
 # (Optional) You'll need the [http://www.graphviz.org/ GraphViz] package installed to generate the dependency graph.

== Software Requiring License Agreements ==

Some software in Ivy !RoundUp cannot be downloaded directly from the Internet, due to the requirement that you must click to accept a license.

For these cases, the {{{packager.xml}}} files will look for the archive instead in {{{${java.io.tmpdir}.}}} You must download the archive files manually and put them there.

At the time of this writing, the following modules fall into this category:

|| *Module* || *Version* || *Archive* || *Download Site* ||
|| jmx || 1.2.1 || {{{jmx-1_2_1-ri.zip}}} || http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/core/mntr-mgmt/javamanagement/download.jsp ||
|| jmxremote || 1.0.1_04 || {{{jmxremote-1_0_1-ri-bin-b58.zip}}} || http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/core/mntr-mgmt/javamanagement/download.jsp ||
|| javamail || 1.4.1 || {{{javamail-1_4_1.zip}}} || http://java.sun.com/products/javamail/downloads/index.html ||
|| jaf || 1.1.1 || {{{jaf-1_1_1.zip}}} || http://java.sun.com/javase/technologies/desktop/javabeans/jaf/downloads/index.html ||
|| jta || 1.1 || {{{jta-1_1-classes.zip}}}, {{{jta-1_1-doc.zip}}} || http://java.sun.com/javaee/technologies/jta/ ||
|| jms || 1.1 || {{{jms-1_1-fr-apidocs.zip}}} || http://www.sun.com/software/products/message_queue/index.xml ||

== Steps To Build Repository ==

Once you've satisfied the prerequisites:
 # Change into the top of the appropriate tree (e.g., *trunk/*).
 # Run *ant*.

After downloading all of the resources and resolving every module in Ivy !RoundUp, your completed "normal" repository will be in *build/repo-with-artifacts*.